---
title: "Detective"
index:
  - detective-2024
permalink: /classes/detective-2024/
is_class: true
excerpt: "Detectives are the pinnacle of modern problem solving."
v_2024: true
alt_version: detective
# header:
#   overlay_image: /assets/images/classes/detective/header.png
#   teaser: /assets/images/classes/detective/header.jpg
source: "Survivor's Guide to Morgenfell"
---
Detectives are the pinnacle of modern problem solving. They are elegant, shrewd, and--if the situation escalates--quite capable in combat. They are master investigators and dominate the social battlefield. They exploit their enemys' weaknesses and hit hard, exactly where it hurts.

*You must have an Intelligence score of 13 or higher in order to multiclass in or out of this class.*

# The Detective

| Level | Proficiency Bonus | Features |
| :---: | :---: | :---- |
| 1 | +2 | [[Expertise]], [[Professional Talent]] |
| 2 | +2 | [[Calculated Action]], [[Fighting Style]] |
| 3 | +2 | [[Professional Field]] |
| 4 | +2 | [[Ability Score Improvement]] |
| 5 | +3 | [[Extra Attack]], [[Quick Learner]] |
| 6 | +3 | [[Expertise]] |
| 7 | +3 | [[Professional Field]] feature |
| 8 | +3 | [[Ability Score Improvement]] |
| 9 | +4 | [[Experienced Investigator]] |
| 10 | +4 | [[Considered Deflection]] |
| 11 | +4 | [[Intelligent Strikes]] |
| 12 | +4 | [[Ability Score Improvement]] |
| 13 | +5 | [[Professional Field]] feature |
| 14 | +5 | [[Sharp Reflexes]] |
| 15 | +5 | [[Superior Talent]] |
| 16 | +5 | [[Ability Score Improvement]] |
| 17 | +6 | [[Professional Field]] feature |
| 18 | +6 | [[Indomitable Mind]] |
| 19 | +6 | [[Ability Score Improvement]] |
| 20 | +6 | [[Unrivaled Intellect]] |

# Class Features
As a detective, you gain the following class features.

## Hit Points
**Hit Dice:** 1d8 per detective level \
**Hit Points at 1st Level:** 8 + your Constitution modifier \
**Hit Points at Higher Levels:** 1d8 (or 5) + your Constitution modifier per detective level after 1st

## Proficiencies
**Armor:** Light Armor \
**Weapons:** Simple weapons, firearms, rapiers, light crossbows \
**Tools:** Forgery Kit \
**Saving Throws:** Intelligence, Dexterity \
**Skills:** Choose three from Arcana, Deception, History, Insight, Investigation, Medicine, Nature, Perception, Persuasion, Religion, and Survival

## Equipment
You start with the following equipment, in addition to the equipment granted by your background:

(a) a pistol and 20 bullets or (b) a light crossbow and 20 bolts \
(a) a rapier or (b) a simple weapon \
(a) a scholar's pack or (b) an explorer's pack \
Studded Leather Armor, a Forgery Kit, and a dagger

## Level 1: Expertise
Choose one of your skill proficiencies. Your proficiency bonus is doubled for any ability check you make that uses the chosen proficiency.

At 6th level, you can choose two more of your proficiencies to gain this benefit.

## Level 1: Professional Talent 
When you make an ability check to which you apply your proficiency bonus or when you make an attack roll with a weapon you're proficient in, you can give yourself advantage on the roll.

You can use this feature a number of times equal to your Intelligence modifier (a minimum of once). You regain any expended uses when you finish a Long rest.

##  Level 2: Calculated Action
You can take a bonus action on each of your turns in combat. This action can be used only to take the [[Disengage]], [[Help]], or [[Search]] action.

Additionally, you can take the [[Help]] action to aid an ally in attacking a creature if the target of the attack is within 30 feet you, rather than 5 feet of you.

## Level 2: Fighting Style
You adopt a particular style of fighting as your specialty. Choose one of the following options. You can’t take a Fighting Style option more than once, even if you later get to choose again.

- **Archery.** You gain a +2 bonus to attack rolls you make with ranged weapons.

- **Defense.** While you are wearing armor, you gain a +1 bonus to AC.

- **Dueling.** When you are wielding a melee weapon in one hand and no other weapons, you gain a +2 bonus to damage rolls with that weapon.

- **Two-Weapon Fighting.** When you engage in two-weapon fighting, you can add your ability modifier to the damage of the second attack.

## Level 3: Detective Subclass 
You gain a Detective subclass of your choice. The Investigator, Forensics Expert, Strategist, and Placeholder subclasses are detailed after this class’s description. A subclass is a specialization that grants you features at certain Detective levels. For the rest of your career, you gain each of your subclass’s features that are of your Detective level or lower.

| Professional Field | Source |
| :---- |  :--- |
| [[!Investigator]] | Survivor's Guide to Morgenfell |
| [[!Foresics Expert]] | Survivor's Guide to Morgenfell |
| [[!Strategist]] | Survivor's Guide to Morgenfell |

## Level 4: Ability Score Improvement
You gain the Ability Score Improvement feat or another feat of your choice for which you qualify. You gain this feature again at Fighter levels 6, 8, 12, 14, and 16.

## Level 5: Extra Attack
You can attack twice, instead of once, whenever you take the Attack action on your turn.

## Level 5: Quick Learner
You regain all of your expended uses of Professional Talent when you finish a short or long rest.

## Level 9: Experienced Investigator
You can take the [[Search]] action in combat to make an Intelligence (Investigation) check against a creature's AC. On success, you learn any immunities, resistances, and vulnerabilities it has.

# Level 10: Considered Deflection
When you are hit with a weapon attack, you can use your reaction to add your Intelligence modifier to your AC, possibly causing the attack to miss. You retain this bonus to your AC until the start of your next turn.

## Level 11: Intelligent Strikes
When you take the attack action on your turn, your weapon attacks deal additional damage equal to your Intelligence modifier.

## Level 14: Sharp Reflexes 
When you fail a saving throw, you can use your reaction and expend a use of Professional Talent to reroll the d20, and you must use the new roll.

## Level 15: Superior Talent
When you roll initiative and have no remaining uses of Professional Talent left, you regain one use.

## Level 18: Indomitable Mind
When you use Professional Talent and still fail or miss, the use is not expended.

## Level 20: Unrivaled Intellect
Your Intelligence score increases by 4. Your maximum for this score is now 24.