---
title: "Wind Domain"
index:
  - wind-2024
  - wind-domain-2024
permalink: /classes/cleric/wind-2024/
excerpt: "The Wind domain focuses on the ever-changing nature of wind, drawing power from deities of nature or storm."
subclass: cleric
v_2024: true
alt_version: wind
header:
  overlay_image: /assets/images/classes/cleric/wind/header.png
  teaser: /assets/images/classes/cleric/wind/header.jpg
source: "Basic Rules"
---
The Wind domain focuses on the ever-changing nature of wind, drawing power from deities of nature or storm. It encourages mobility, using movement for advantage, and never staying in one place. Clerics of the Wind Domain revere the ever-changing currents, embodying motion, change, and freedom--Never static, always advancing. These clerics use wind’s swiftness to outmaneuver foes and guide allies to safety.

# Level 3: Quick Feet
Your walking speed is increased by 5 ft.

Your walking speed is increased by an additional 5 feet when you reach level 6, and by an additional 10 feet when you reach level 17.

# Level 3: Wind Domain Spells

## Wind Domain Spells

| Cleric Level | Spells                              |
| :----------: | :---------------------------------- |
| 1 | [[!Expeditious Retreat]], [[!Feather Fall]]             |
| 3 | [[!Gust of Wind]], [[!Levitate]] |
| 5 |	[[!Fly]], [[!Wind Wall]]             |
| 7 | [[!Divination]], [[!Freedom of Movement]]        |
| 9 | [[!Commune]], Control Winds         |

# Level 3: Havoc
As an action, you can expend one use of your Channel Divinity. Your movement doesn't provoke opportunity attacks until the end of your turn, and each hostile creature you move within 5 feet of must make a Dexterity saving throw once per turn. On failure, it has the prone condition and takes bludgeoning damage equal to 2d4 plus your Wisdom Modifier. This can only affect a number of creatures equal to up to your proficiency bonus.

# Level 6: Fleeting Soar
You can command the wind to sweep you off the ground. When you take the [[dash]] action on your turn, you can grant yourself a flying speed equal to your walking speed until the end of that turn. If you are still airborne when this effect ends, you fall unless you have another means of staying aloft.

You can use this feature a number of times equal to your proficiency bonus, and you regain all expended uses when you finish a short or long rest.

# Level 17: Wind Walker
You always benefit from the effects of the [[Wind Walk]] spell, and you always have it prepared. You can cast it using any appropriate spell slots you have.

[:classes/cleric/wind:]
